# Module-1-HW
The name of the company I chose is Ripple. This company was co-founded by Jed McCaleb and Chris Larsen in 2012 (Investopedia). The company was created because the engineers and creators of the company were very interested in Bitcoin, and believed they could create a better version of it that touched up on the bad aspects of Bitcoin and its transaction system. The primary way that Ripple funds its business practices is from the sale of its cryptocurrency, XRP, which has raised $1,254 million dollars and is also privately funded by 41 investors which have helped raise $293.8 million (Crunchbase). 

Ripple came about as a company trying to solve problems with the settlement of payment transactions to make them more secure and efficient. Ripple is penetrating the banking industry because of the fact that they are helping provide banks with the ability to make cross-border payments in a much faster and cheaper manner (Cointelegraph). Ripples intends to target domestic as well as international banks to use their XRP ledger along with their cryptocurrency, XRP (Ripple.com). The market size of Ripple’s set of customers is very large. They partner with financial institutions across the globe and have more than 100 institutions that have joined their RippleNet. The reason why Ripple stands out among its competitors and has an advantage is the fact that they will create a trustless system that allows transactions to move much faster and have more certainty involved. The technologies Ripple is using to give themselves a competitive advantage within the market includes their cryptocurrency along with their XRP Ledger. The XRP Ledger uses a consensus system to approve transactions on the network in a much quicker and efficient manner. The technology uses something called validators, which agree on transactions and orders every 3-5 seconds (XRPL.org). This technology is leading us to a better area in decentralization since validators can be run by anyone whether it is a business, bank or even individuals can run validators on the ledger. Overall, this technology allows for a more trustworthy transaction that can move much faster than payments on a different type of system. 

Ripple fits into the fintech domain of open banking along with blockchain and cryptocurrencies. There have been a lot of trends in blockchain and banking over the last ten years, but the most prominent trend is the development of stable coins and CBDCs, which stands for central banking digital currency. Stable coins have stable values and are tied to an external asset, such as USDC which is pegged to the US Dollar. If Ripple’s XRP were to be used as a CBDC, it would allow a lot of liquidity to be unlocked from nostro accounts which are currently seen as dormant funds that cannot be used. XRP would solve this problem and unlock almost $5 trillion worth of funds sitting in these accounts (Forbes). The development of a CBDC would disrupt the banking industry but also help communities that do not have strong banking systems based on the fact that the role of cash has been steadily declining over time as technology advances (FitchRatings). The other major companies that sit in the domain of blockchain along with banking include IBM Blockchain, Stellar, Ethereum, Blockstream and many more. Although they have many competitors, Ripple has had a large effect on this industry and continues to penetrate the banking system in a positive way.

Ripple has had a pretty big impact in blockchain along with banking thus far into the timeline of their company. They have landed big partnerships with well known banks and other financial institutions who are currently using their XRP ledger in their practices. Some of these banks and institutions include PNC Bank, American Express, Bank of America, Santander and many more (Investopedia). Some of the metrics that companies in Ripple’s domain measure success on are transparency, payment systems and market cap. Ripple’s cryptocurrency, XRP, is in the top 10 of all cryptocurrency market capitalization. Ripple’s payment systems are incredibly fast and efficient along with the fact that their XRP ledger is extremely transparent and allows all transactions and payments to be seen by anyone on the ledger. Compared to Ripple’s competitors in the same domain, Ripple is doing an outstanding job behind a couple stable coins such as tether and USDC, as well as Ethereum, Bitcoin and Binance Coin.

If I were to advise Ripple, I would suggest that they offer companies or potential partners a period of time to use their services and transaction methods, whether it is a month or 6 months, so these companies can see how useful it may be in unlocking liquidity and for their other various business practices. I think that by offering this, banks that are hesitant to incorporate blockchain into their practices will get a chance to see how much faster and trustworthy it is before having to make the huge decision of partnering with Ripple without seeing how they can help. This would not require much more technology but it would help Ripple since these institutions will get a chance to use their current groundbreaking technology. This is a good solution for Ripple since it is still very early in the Web3 Ecosystem it will allow larger financial institutions to understand where banking and technology is headed.

## Resources:
https://xrpl.org/history.html
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/ripple-cryptocurrency.asp

https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/ripple-labs/company_financials

https://cointelegraph.com/blockchain-for-beginners/what-is-ripple-a-beginners-guide-for-understanding-ripple#:~:text=In%20short%2C%20Ripple's%20XRP%2Dpowered,required%20to%20make%20global%20payments.

https://ripple.com/customers/

https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2022/01/28/blockchain-in-the-banking-sector-a-review-of-the-landscape-and-opportunities/

https://www.forbes.com/sites/francescoppola/2019/02/10/there-is-no-such-thing-as-dormant-funds-in-banking/?sh=35f4f8705aef

https://www.fitchratings.com/research/banks/central-bank-digital-currencies-may-disrupt-financial-systems-17-05-2021

https://www.investopedia.com/news/what-role-xrp-ripples-products/
